hey what's up everybody welcome back to
my channel the place to be for new
digital advertisers
and in today's video i want to talk
about what i would do
if i was starting a new google ads
campaign from
scratch specifically i want to talk
about the three things that i would do
so let's get right into it
by the way something very important to
note all this stuff we're talking about
guys
we're doing before we even go into the
google ads account and the google ads
interface and start creating campaigns
we're doing the work we're doing the
research we're doing the preparation and
planning
so that way we are in the most
likelihood of success
possible when launching our campaigns
the first thing that i would do is i
would create a realistic
advertising budget i will do the math
successful advertising whether it's
google
facebook linkedin youtube whatever it
always comes down to the numbers and you
have to make sure that
whether it's for your own business or
for your clients business that the
numbers make sense
and that you are actually fighting a
winnable
fight that is big a lot of the times we
think our campaigns are not working
but they actually are we just don't have
a realistic budget in place
to make the numbers work or in a worse
circumstance is the numbers would have
never
added up from the beginning due to what
you're selling and the margins available
so first things first i would go into
the google ads keyword planner and i
will look up
what are the keywords that i want to bid
on just to give me an
estimate so i can create a plan around
and start to calculate the numbers
so for example let's say i wanted to
start a new google ads campaign
for a software company for a software as
a service company
i'll go to google ads i'll search on the
keyword planner some of the keywords
that their dream client would search
those money keywords that i'm like man
if i just show up at the top of the page
for those keywords
it's lights out
and what i'll do is i'll look at the
google ads keyword planner i'll look at
those keywords and i'll see what is
google recommending as the
top of page bid estimate and then based
on that top of page bid
estimate that can give me an
understanding on okay
what is it i'm going to need to actually
make these numbers work
now when it comes to creating and
calculating a google advertising budget
i actually did a full video on this that
i recommend that you check out i'll link
that in the description box down below
but just for the sake of brevity for
this video i will take that estimated
top of page bid
and i'll multiply it by a hundred and if
my client or if i
myself don't have enough cash flow to
support that budget for that
keyword and this count then that means
to me that i
you know it's not realistic so that's
the first thing i'll do is i'll
calculate the budget
and i'll run the numbers the second
thing that i would do when starting a
new google ads campaign from scratch
is i will spy on the competition so i'll
go to google.com and i'll just search
all the different keywords that i would
ideally like to show up for
and i'll start to take note and start to
copy down the names and the website
addresses of
all my different competitors and i'll
take a look at all of them and try to
see
what does their ads look like what are
the offers they're making
the landing pages that they're sending
that traffic to and really start to do a
deep dive on my competition
that i'm going to be going up against in
the google ads auction place
when it comes to spying on your
competition i actually did a full
in-depth video on how to spawn your
google ads competition
i also did another video on my top
recommended
ppc spy tools so i highly recommend you
check out those videos
but basically all you want to do here is
you just want to go and you want to
research
your competitors that you're going to be
going up against and really
taking what's working for them and using
it as your own you want to steal
genius essentially right you want to
steal the genius that they have spent
their hard-earned money and blood sweat
and tears to figure out
you want to be able to take that and
apply it to yourself and your own
campaigns from day one
and leverage a proven framework that way
you're not starting from scratch
and you're leveraging what's already
been working out there in the
marketplace
and you're starting out ahead
last but not least the third thing that
i would do when creating campaigns from
scratch is i will create a campaign plan
now campaign plan it could be as
literally just a simple spreadsheet
and on that spreadsheet i will literally
map out my campaign
so for example i'll put my campaign name
i'll put the location that i want to
target
i'll put the devices that i want to
target i will put the
different ad groups that i want to
include in my campaign i will put the
different keywords
i will put the different audience
exclusions right who do i not want to
show ads to right you don't want to show
ads to existing leads
for example so that'll be an audience
exclusion i'll put in there as well
all the different match types for the
different keywords and really
map out my campaign in its entirety
before
actually going into the google ads
interface and actually launching a
campaign
and that's what i would do and then from
here now i have done the math
i've done the math i know i have a
realistic budget i know i am fighting a
winnable fight
so that my efforts will not be in vain
and what i'm trying to achieve is
actually possible the next thing is i've
put together a swipe file
i've researched my competition i've put
together this list
i've seen what are their keywords ads
landing pages that they're sending
traffic to
so i'm already going to start ahead
steal genius leverage proven frameworks
one of my favorite things from picasso
says good artist copy great artist steal
i'm stealing what's working from the
competition and then last but not least
i'm creating that campaign plan
i'm mapping out before i even go into
the google ads interface
my campaign name the locations i want to
target the keywords the ad groups
the audience exclusions and everything
that i need to know so that when i go
into that google ads account
i mean business i'm not just there
pressing buttons just to press buttons
i'm in there with a game plan
i'm fighting a winnable fight and i
already know what my competition is
doing so when i have to write ads i
already have a list of ads that my
competitors are running
that can give me ideas and really all
this is to just prepare me
for the most likelihood of success so
when i go into the google ads interface
i am a google ads
pro and not an amateur and i'm not
starting from scratch
and i'm doing all this pre-work so that
i can reap the rewards because most
people
are just going to want to go into the
google ads interface select some
keywords
create some ad groups create some
campaigns do the bare minimum
not do the math not spawn the
competition not do all this effort and
all this work
and then what happens is they launch
their campaigns and then they end up
saying google ads doesn't work
it's not that google ads doesn't work
it's that you didn't do the work
to make it work so that is it for this
video guys i hope you got tremendous
value from it
if you did if you could like this video
give it a thumbs up that'll help me get
this video ranked higher in the search
engines
if you know anybody that's interested in
google advertising feel free to share
this video
and last but not least if you're not
already i highly recommend
you join my new facebook group and join
the google ads pro community
and i'll link that in the description
box down below and you can get access to
more exclusive google advertising
content
and really just looking forward to
engaging with you and helping you
create launch and scale profitable
google advertising campaigns
thanks so much i'll see you in the next
one take care
you